When we upload a file we can also restrict the type of file uploaded to the server when a file is uploaded
the type elements of the array is set to the MIME type of the file.
MIME types are simple strings are used to identify file formats for example a plain text files MIME
type text slash plane AJ pic image is image.
Slash j peg and so on.
The complete list of MIME types is very long but this page lists some important ones relevant to web
applications
as we are uploading an image.
We can restrict the MIME type of the uploaded file to types that correspond to the types of image files
we want to allow.
First let's add an array of acceptable MIME types.
Then we'll use the in array function to check if the uploaded file type is in the array.
This returns true if it is so will negate this to check if it's not in the array.
If it's not we'll throw an exception.
So now if I try and upload a file that's not an image.
We get the error message if I upload an image file.
No error message is shown.
The MIME type in the files array is set on the client however and isn't checked by P 8 p.
It can be easily set to something else by a malicious user.
So we can't trust it.
We could check the file extension for example checking that the file name ended in dot p n g r dot j
peak for example and this would probably be okay.
It is possible however to configure Apache to interpret multiple file extensions for the same file.
This means that in theory you could append dot P N G to the end of a p h prescript view the image in
a browser and execute the P HP code in the file.
Although this is unlikely because of this it's best not to completely rely upon the file name extension
to determine the type of file.
There is an alternative we can use the file info functions in P P to more reliably determine the mime
type of a file.
First we call the file info open function passing in the mime type constant to get a new file.
Info resource then we call the final infold file function passing in the file info resource and the
path of the uploaded file.
When files are uploaded they're temporarily saved to the path in the temp name element of the array.
We'll look at this in more detail shortly.
This returns a string containing the MIME type so when we check if it's in the array we can replace
the type from the files array with this value.
Let's try uploading a file that's not an image.
And we get the error message.
If I upload a valid image file.
Then no error message is shown.